Cryptocurrencies
1. Double-spending is the result of successfully spending some money more
than once. This is an important problem any cryptocurrency should solve.
How does Bitcoin prevent this kind of attacks?

2. What’s a blockchain fork? What kinds of fork exist?



Answers:
1. Bitcoin solves the double-spending problem by logging each transaction into the blockchain.
The blockchain consists of a linked list of blocks. Each block consists of a set of transactions.
Thus, the entire history of the money can be traced to its origins, making it impossible to add
transactions of the same bitcoin to 2 different places.

When person A sends money to person B, the transaction is broadcasted to all nodes. However, the
transaction will arrive at each node at slightly different times. If someone tried to double-spend,
each server would consider the first transaction it received as valid and the second one as invalid.
To make every server agree on which transaction is valid and which is not, there needs to be a
consensus algorithm.

Bitcoin uses proof-of-work, in which a difficult puzzle (finding a partial hash collition) must be
solved in order to add a block of transactions to the blockchain (this is called mining).
Thus, the first miner who solves the problem (which depends on the last block in the chain) gets
to add it to the blockchain and broadcast it, which will mean that each server will accept it if
the proof-of-work is correct.

There can still be a disagreement if 2 miners solve a different block at the same time, which would
mean that there are 2 branches of the blockchain at that moment. The way to solve this is each
server temporarily keeps both blocks, and when new blocks arrive, they must use one or the other
as the base block they're linking to. Since the longest chain is considered the valid one,
eventually one branch will outgrow the other, and miners will be incentivized to mine on the longest
chain, effectively solving the disagreement.

2. A blockchain fork happens when a blockchain diverges into two potential paths forward. They can be
classified as intentional or accidental.

Accidental forks happen when 2 miners mine a block at nearly the same time. This divergence is short-lived
as the blockchain will eventually choose one path and dismiss the other (with the mechanism described in
the previous answer).

Intentional forks happen when some parties want to change the protocol to add features to the blockchain,
fix bugs or vulnerabilities, or reverse the effect of hacking, but other parties are not in agreement,
making the blockchain diverge.

Intentional forks can be classified as hard forks or soft forks.

Hard forks are when the software validating according to the old rules sees the new blocks as invalid.
All nodes that want to follow this new path must upgrade their software.

Soft forks happen when old nodes do not follow a new rule, which causes them to accept data that is invalid
to the new nodes.